Hey.
Yeah?
Come with me for a sec.
Don't do a double take.
C-Come with you?
For what?
Blocking practice.
You're allowed to do other things than pick up balls if we're practicing on our own, right?
I'm not going to force you—
Tsukki's joining in!
Thanks for joining in.
All right!
Why don't you put those away first?
Oh.
Clench your fists tight enough to leave marks
Now, go bask in the orange glow
!
Haikyuu Haikyuu Haikyuu !
Haikyuu
Sweating harder than ever has led us to the unknown territory of this high stage
The crowd's on their side and our chances are slim, so we could just skip out
But if the fear of getting hurt is keeping your wings in check
You may as well be a stuffed bird
If a person tries to live their life swallowing their dreams and passions
They'll be torn by the heartbreak
But our goosebumps just won't go away
Our very souls are burning bright Beyond our limits
Awaits a land Of thrilling competition
Unleash everything you've got
Winning or losing doesn't even seem to matter
When you're in the zone and everything flows
In glorious slow-motion Now, go all-out!
Episode Four: "Easy"
Man, I feel so much better when there's someone I know around.
Broccoli #1.
And #2.
He's been hard to get along with since the summer training camp,
but I can't even tell what he's thinking.
You guys at Karasuno beat Shiratorizawa and are going to nationals, right?
Yeah.
That's awesome.
My team lost in five sets in the finals.
I was sure we'd win too.
Hey.
Sakusa!
I haven't seen the video yet,
but why did Shiratorizawa lose?
Was Wakatoshi not at his best?
He seemed to be playing his best to me.
What?
Then why the hell did he lose?
How did you manage that?
Did someone actually manage to stop Wakatoshi?
Yeah, they did.
Though in Hinata's case, it was basically a receive.
Who was it? What grade are they in? What's their name?
What junior high—
Sorry about that!
He's as negative as you can get.
He has to know everything about anyone who could be a threat to him.
I'm not negative. I'm just cautious.
You haven't actually gotten serious yet, have you, Sakusa?
What makes you say that?
It's just a feeling.
I mean, you're way more normal than what I imagined you'd be like.
Right now, he thinks his shoulders aren't doing so great.
Though in his case, it's usually just in his head.
I guess there's nothing bad about being cautious when it comes to that stuff.
Bath time.
Already?
I'm taking one before anyone else can fill the tub with their germs.
Sorry to bug you guys!
Man, that scared me!
I can't believe you called one of the top three aces in Japan "normal"!
I said he seems normal so far.
Everyone here's crazy good.
Especially him.
I wonder who he is.
But you know, this training camp...
It's weird that we're even holding it.
I think Coach Washijou's trying to change.
If he wasn't, he wouldn't have given a second thought to this camp,
and he wouldn't have allowed you to be the primary instructor, Anabara.
Coach Washijou has been a bit different ever since we played Karasuno.
Fried Noodles Crispy Seafood Noodles
Ham Cutlets French Fries Pork Soup
Oyster Miso Soup.... Fried Oysters..
Steamed Oysters... Half Shell Raw Oysters..
Oysters Oysters
Is he worried about Karasuno's number ten?
Well, he definitely knows that he exists.
When Karasuno's number ten scored the final point in the finals,
Coach Washijou's face was rather unforgettable.
Of course, he obviously seemed upset,
but at the same time...
Thanks for waiting!
Here're your raw oysters!
They're finally here!
Hey, don't eat too many.
Remember the teacher who got sick from oysters when we were in high school?
And then we had to keep practicing on our own the next day, right?
That sure takes me back.
Left!
You're not a libero, Hinata?
Huh?
Do I actually look like a libero?
Do I look like I'm good at receiving?!
Nah, not really.
Oh, that so?!
I'll block too.
Two middle blockers?!
If you're gonna spike, I'm gonna stuff it right back in your face.
Me too!
Seriously?!
I believe it's my turn I'll stop you!
Yeah!
Damn it.
Am I the shortest now?
Nice location!
That was someone's fault for leaving the edge open.
The straight spike was wide open.
Well, I was positive that he was gonna do a cross-court spike!
Yeah.
I also thought that was going to be a cross-court spike.
He even angled his approach like he was going to do one.
He really is good.
I heard this guy hasn't been playing volleyball that long, but he's from Date Tech.
I guess I shouldn't be surprised he's not jumping randomly.
Hey, Tsukishima.
Could it be that you were just saying you wanted to practice blocking so I can have a chance to spike?
Nope.
Right. Of course not.
Once we start playing against those top-level teams at nationals,
the tactics between the blockers and spikers are going to become even more complex.
Yura!
Yes?
I'll set next!
Okay.
Setting tactics aside,
I can't deny the fact that Hinata is a spiker that can actually see the blockers.
Of course I'm going to practice against that.
Got it!
Nice spike!
You don't need to focus so hard on hitting a target if you're just going to pass right over the net.
Yes, sir.
Setter, you can stand a little further away from the net.
Yes, sir!
Nice spike!
Kageyama didn't have any problem syncing together with that left-handed middle blocker.
His technique and instinct are both wonderful.
How was that?
I think I could hit it sooner.
Could you make it a bit more compact and zippy?
Got it.
It's terrifying that this kid can agree to that so quickly and actually follow through.
Um, could you keep passing like that?
Got it.
I'm pretty sure Kageyama's not the best at communicating, but you can tell that he's definitely trying.
Up front!
Nice!
Left!
Talk about a high jump...
Great job. That was right on the end line.
Make sure you're properly stretching.
Hey.
Have you seen me before?
Yeah, since I came here.
That's not what I meant!
I'm asking you if you've seen any of my matches before.
No.
Someone's trying to pick a fight with Kageyama again.
I see.
Then be more scared of me! Be surprised!
You've just been giving me a dumb look ever since you saw me!
Usually people underestimate me because of my height...
and then freak out when they see my skills!
That's how this is usually supposed to work!
And apparently there's another annoying guy to put up with.
You do freak me out.
But...
I can learn a lot from you.
What?!
Wow, you've got guts.
That guy's a setter and second-year.
Miya Atsumu.
I actually thought you were gonna be pretty prickly at first,
but on the court...
you're a Goody Two-Shoes, aren't ya?
What?
Haikyuu!!
Here's your drink!
Thanks.
Huh? Where's my... Here's your towel!
Oh, that's right! I put it over there.
Thanks!
You sure are observant, Shouyou.
Whoops, it really went up there. I'll go get—
I'll go get it!
Thanks.
Watching them play from up here is my thing lately.
Kunimi's receives look like Ushiwaka's.
He doesn't make unnecessary movements.
Hyakuzawa!
Someone get that!
Or maybe he just doesn't want to move.
He totally just watched it fall.
Come on! Let's take this seriously!
You totally could've gotten that!
We're playing together with guys we can't play with usually!
Let's go all-out!
Kunimi Akira Kunimi Akira Kunimi Akira
Second least favorite phrase:
"Go all-out."
Uh, sorry about that.
I promise that he does try sometimes.
Come on, Kunimi! You should've gone after that one!
Sure.
All right. Go get rehydrated and we'll do two-on-two drills.
I don't like that guy.
You mean Kunimi?
Everyone here is doing their best, so why's he so unmotivated?
He likes to conserve his energy.
Then he gets super serious in the latter half of a match when it's hard to deal with.
But I mean, he should go after any balls he can get.
Right?! He's taking it way too easy!
"Easy," huh?
Two-on-two, huh?
These drills are the roughest.
Yeah, because if there's only two of us, we have to keep moving nonstop.
But the one who has it the hardest is that guy over there,
since he has the least experience.
I don't want to be that guy, but I'd rather not be with the guy who's two meters tall.
Yeah. He's tall, but his technique is still at the junior high level.
It's hard trying to pick up after him.
Gather 'round!
The rules are the same.
When you're spiking, no softly hitting it with the tips of your fingers.
First to get ten points wins.
I know I've said this before, but always think about your next move.
You're not going to be able to win this if you're half-assing it.
Yes, sir!
Kunimi & Kawashita Kindaichi & Koganegawa
Got it!
Damn it...
Screw you! Screw you, Kunimi!
Whenever they do two-on-twos, Kunimi's team is always really good.
He really is talented, and I think he's always observing who he's playing with.
But that's not the only thing. What else is he doing?
It feels like his team has more time.
Got it!
He's really staring at me.
Hyakuzawa!
This feeling of being left further and further behind...
I can tell my level of play is getting worse.
Since there are only two of us, it's hard to do any kind of complicated attack.
So you just need to watch the other guy and pounce on his mistakes.
And...
I know that I'm making a bunch of mistakes.
But just realizing that...
isn't going to magically make me be able to keep up.
I can't wait for this two-on-two match to hurry up and be over!
Hyakuzawa & Oda Shibata & Yura
Here's your water.
I wish you were the one invited here instead of me.
How stupid can I be?!
He obviously feels that way more than anyone else!
He's a starter for a powerhouse team, and everyone here who's been up against him is watching his every move.
Unlike me, who just happens to be here,
he's the kind of guy who makes people want to pick him.
Hey, now.
You mean you wish it was me and you who got invited here, right?
Everyone who's been invited here's pretty amazing in one way or another, and I mean, you're super huge and tall.
And I admit, without Kageyama, I'm just a little—
emphasis on the "little"—
inconvenienced, and I can't quite display everything I've got.
But even then... But I'm just huge.
Hey!
What do you mean, "just"?!
Do you... Do you realize how cool two meters is?!
If I could pick between having a killer serve and being two meters tall right now,
I'd definitely pick being two meters tall!
I mean, I can always work on my serve, but there's nothing I can do about my height!
Anyway!
Being two meters tall is the best...
The most ultimate...
The most amazingly awesome super talent there is!
Cheering up a rival? You must be confident.
The heck are you talking about?!
I'm chewing him out!
Yeah, I'm pretty sure you're cheering him up.
Huh?
Really?
I mean, I guess that's fine in the end.
What good does it do you to cheer me up?
Lots! I mean...
I wanna beat you.
Hey, there's something that I noticed when I was watching you guys play.
Could you try something for me?
I won't be able to do anything that requires a lot of technique.
It's super easy!
I'm sure you'll be able to do it!
Hyakuzawa & Kuroishi Kunimi & Nagamatsu
Finish it off!
Up front!
The back...
is wide open!
He can actually reach that?
Let's take it easy, Hyakuzawa!
It's so simple and trivial.
But it's also really easy to forget in a chaotic match.
Volleyball is a sport where you can't hold the ball or let it drop.
But when you or your teammates are out of sorts,
you can always try to make time for yourselves.
And when you deliberately take it easy and pass...
Got it!
...the teammate you're passing it to gets to take it easy too.
I won't be able to do anything that requires a lot of technique.
It's super easy!
I'm sure you'll be able to do it!
All you have to do is make the first pass as high as possible.
Like Kunimi does.
Just by doing that, the fast and stressful rhythm of the match will get a little easier.
And just by getting your rhythm back a little, then...
Hit it over!
...you'll be able to do all sorts of things!
There's no way I can win head-to-head with a giant that's two meters tall.
Hyakuzawa & Kuroishi Hyakuzawa & Kuroishi
Man, you're so big! I'm so jealous, damn it!
Hey, Hyakuzawa!
Nice spike, hey!
Kunimi & Tsukishima Oda & Kawashita
Now there's another one staring at me.
All right, go ahead and do your stretches, and then head on out.
Yes, sir!
So what if the pressure's on?
I don't need any help from on high
So what if I'm an egotist?
I just want to win, I don't have a reason why
I'll take on every challenge
I'll throw off any shadows of doubt
This is my chance to overcome my limits
I've gone all-out Conquered my fears
Turned them into conviction
Now fly high, higher, higher, to the top
Being so torn at the taste of defeat
Shed the tears that let our potential flower
If you try to give up, I'll just laugh it off
I don't know the meaning of the phrase
If you say it's too hard, I'll just laugh it off
Episode Five: Hunger Episode Five: Hunger
Episode Five: Hunger Next time: "Hunger."